documentation/3.0/event.md, before:

## Event

An _event_ represents an occurrence of a course or program.
An `<event />` node contains all the information related to a specific occurrence, like where the event is held, its price, its start date and time and so on.

[Here you can find the definition of the `Event` type](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd) and [here you can find some samples](../../samples/3.0/event-sample.xml).

As for [provider](provider.md), [course](course.md) and [location](location.md), an event must have an identifier which is unique within its scope (i.e. its education).

Here is a list of the supported attributes

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|-|-|-|-|
|`uniqueIdentifier`|alphanumeric (up to 128)|Yes|The unique identifier for the event|
|`deliveryMethod`|alphanumeric (up to 128)|Yes|The method how the training is delivered.|
|`language`|[enumeration](../../schemas/3.0/language.xsd)|No|The instruction language for this event.|
|`link`|[URI](http://www.datypic.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_anyURI.html)|No|A URL pointing to the page of this event|

In addition, the following nested elements are supported

* [`<price />`](#price) (optional)
* [`<start />`](#event-start) (optional)
* [Additional optional fields](#additional-information)

### Type of events

The EMG XML 3.0 supports three types of event
* An event of type `LocationEvent` is an event to be held in a specific venue, usually an open-house course.
  - It requires a [location](location.md) to be specified via its unique identifier by the attribute `locationUID`
* An event of type `AreaEvent` is an event that can be held anywhere in a specific place, usually an in-house course.
  - It requires a place to be specified via a symbolic name by the attribute `place`
* An event of type `DistanceEvent` is an event that can be taken without physically attend it, like online.

Since a course can have more than one event, it's possible to have courses that contain events of different types.

### Price

The `<price />` element is an instance of the type [`Price`](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd#L136-L171) and is used to specify the price of the event.

The only required attribute is `price`. It accepts a decimal value representing the cost of the event.

If your event uses a currency that differs from the default one of the site, you can use the `currency` attribute. It accepts any of [these values](../../schemas/3.0/currency.xsd).

You can specify the VAT rate for the course and whether or not the VAT is already included in the amount specified in the `price` attribute.

Additionally, you can specify the discount to be applied on the cost of the course. 
The value of the discount can be supplied either directly or as a percentual rate. In both cases, you can specify a period when the discount is active.

Please note that a `price` node with its price set to `0` will be considered as a free course.

```xml
<!-- This event costs 1250 and uses the default currency --> 
<price price="1250.00" />

<!-- This event costs 1250 EUR --> 
<price price="1250.00" currency="EUR" />

<!-- An event that costs 1250 EUR and has a VAT of 25% already included --> 
<price price="1250.00" currency="EUR" vatIncluded="true" vat="25.00" />

<!-- This event costs 1250 EUR and has a discount of 250 EUR -->
<price price="1250.00" currency="EUR">
    <discount value="250" />
</price>

<!-- This event costs 1250 EUR and has a discount of 10% in December 2018 -->
<price price="1250.00" currency="EUR">
    <discountRate percentage="10" startDate="2018-12-01" endDate="2018-12-31" />
</price>

<!-- A free event -->
<price price="0" />
```

### Event start

The `<start />` element is an instance of the type [`StartInfo`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd) and is used to specify when the event will start and its occurrance, if any.

The schema supports five different type of event starts, each requires different information.

#### Fixed start

An event start of type [`Fixed`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd#L10-L19) is used when an event starts on a specific date.
Additionally, you can specify start time, end date and end time.

```xml
<!-- This events starts on April 26th -->
<start xsi:type="Fixed" startDate="2018-04-26" />

<!-- This events starts on April 26th at 08:30 -->
<start xsi:type="Fixed" startDate="2018-04-26" startTime="08:30:00" />

<!-- This events starts on April 23rd and ends on April 27th -->
<start xsi:type="Fixed" startDate="2018-04-23" endDate="2018-04-27" />

<!-- This events starts on April 26th at 08:30 and ends at 17:30 -->
<start xsi:type="Fixed" startDate="2018-04-26" startTime="08:30:00" endTime="17:30:00" />
```

#### Month start

An event start of type [`Month`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd#L21-L35) is used when an event starts anytime in a month.

The element requires a number to represent the month (from 1 to 12).
Additionally, you can specify an year (in 4 digit format). If not specified, the event is assumed to start every year at the given month.

```xml
<!-- This events starts sometimes in December 2018 -->
<start xsi:type="Month" month="12" year="2018" />

<!-- This events starts sometimes every December -->
<start xsi:type="Month" month="12" />

```

#### Semester start

An event start of type [`Semester`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd#L37-L52) is used when an event starts anytime in a semester.

The schema defines three semesters, `Spring`, `Summer`, and `Fall` without explicitly defining the period of reference.
Additionally, you can specify an year (in 4 digit format). If not specified, the event is assumed to start every year at the given semester.

```xml
<!-- This event starts during the spring of the 2018 -->
<start xsi:type="Semester" semester="Spring" year="2018" />

<!-- This event starts every spring -->
<start xsi:type="Semester" semester="Spring" />
```

#### Always on

An event start of type [`AlwaysOn`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd#L54-L58) is used when an event is always ready to start. It does not require additional information.

```xml
<start xsi:type="AlwaysOn" />
```

#### Text

An event start of type [`Text`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd#L60-L66) is used to present information about the start of an event in a paragraph.

Note that users will not be able to filter events that have their start set to an instance of this type.

```xml
<start xsi:type="Text" description="Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet." />
```

### Additional information

The schema supports additional optional nodes to cover some corner cases.

[`<applicationInfo />`](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd#L173-L190) is used to enable the deep linking into some application systems. It requires an URL and an application code. Additionally, it supports the possibility to make the link available only during a set period of time.

[`<lastApplicationDate />`](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd#L27-L34) is used to display information about the last available date to apply to the event. Its content can either be an element `<date />` containing the date or an element `<text />` containing a descriptive text.

The [`<flags />`](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd#L118-L134) node is used to provide a list of boolean flags. The information must be handled ad-hoc so please use this element only after consulting with your account manager.

Finally, [`<additionalInfo />`](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd#L98-L116) is used to provide unstructured information via a list of key/value tuples. The information contained in these tuples must be handled ad-hoc so please use this element only after consulting with your account manager.

Commit message:

Updated events documentation
80 character limit update.

documentation/3.0/event.md, after:

## Event

An _event_ represents an occurrence of a course or program.
An `<event />` node contains all the information related to a specific occurrence, like where the event is held, its price, its start date and time and so on.

[Here you can find the definition of the `Event` type](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd) and [here you can find some samples](../../samples/3.0/event-sample.xml).

As for [provider](provider.md), [course](course.md) and [location](location.md), an event must have an identifier which is unique within its scope (i.e. its education).

Here is a list of the supported attributes

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|-|-|-|-|
|`uniqueIdentifier`|alphanumeric (up to 128)|Yes|The unique identifier for the event|
|`deliveryMethod`|alphanumeric (up to 128)|Yes|The method how the training is delivered.|
|`language`|[enumeration](../../schemas/3.0/language.xsd)|No|The instruction language for this event.|
|`link`|[URI](http://www.datypic.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_anyURI.html)|No|A URL pointing to the page of this event|

In addition, the following nested elements are supported

* [`<price />`](#price) (optional)
* [`<start />`](#event-start) (optional)
* [Additional optional fields](#additional-information)

### Type of events

The EMG XML 3.0 supports three types of event
* An event of type `LocationEvent` is an event to be held in a specific venue, usually an open-house course.
  - It requires a [location](location.md) to be specified via its unique identifier by the attribute `locationUID`
* An event of type `AreaEvent` is an event that can be held anywhere in a specific place, usually an in-house course.
  - It requires a place to be specified via a symbolic name by the attribute `place`
* An event of type `DistanceEvent` is an event that can be taken without physically attend it, like online.

Since a course can have more than one event, it's possible to have courses that contain events of different types.

### Price

The `<price />` element is an instance of the type [`Price`](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd#L136-L171) and is used to specify the price of the event.

The only required attribute is `price`. It accepts a decimal value representing the cost of the event.

If your event uses a currency that differs from the default one of the site, you can use the `currency` attribute. It accepts any of [these values](../../schemas/3.0/currency.xsd).

You can specify the VAT rate for the course and whether or not the VAT is already included in the amount specified in the `price` attribute.

Additionally, you can specify the discount to be applied on the cost of the course. 
The value of the discount can be supplied either directly or as a percentual rate. In both cases, you can specify a period when the discount is active.

Please note that a `price` node with its price set to `0` will be considered as a free course.

```xml
<!-- This event costs 1250 and uses the default currency --> 
<price price="1250.00" />

<!-- This event costs 1250 EUR --> 
<price price="1250.00" currency="EUR" />

<!-- An event that costs 1250 EUR and has a VAT of 25% already included --> 
<price price="1250.00" currency="EUR" vatIncluded="true" vat="25.00" />

<!-- This event costs 1250 EUR and has a discount of 250 EUR -->
<price price="1250.00" currency="EUR">
    <discount value="250" />
</price>

<!-- This event costs 1250 EUR and has a discount of 10% in December 2018 -->
<price price="1250.00" currency="EUR">
    <discountRate percentage="10" startDate="2018-12-01" endDate="2018-12-31" />
</price>

<!-- A free event -->
<price price="0" />
```

### Event start

The `<start />` element is an instance of the type [`StartInfo`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd) and is used to specify when the event will start and its occurrance, if any.

The schema supports five different type of event starts, each requires different information.

#### Fixed start

An event start of type [`Fixed`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd#L10-L19) is used when an event starts on a specific date.
Additionally, you can specify start time, end date and end time.

```xml
<!-- This events starts on April 26th -->
<start xsi:type="Fixed" startDate="2018-04-26" />

<!-- This events starts on April 26th at 08:30 -->
<start xsi:type="Fixed" startDate="2018-04-26" startTime="08:30:00" />

<!-- This events starts on April 23rd and ends on April 27th -->
<start xsi:type="Fixed" startDate="2018-04-23" endDate="2018-04-27" />

<!-- This events starts on April 26th at 08:30 and ends at 17:30 -->
<start xsi:type="Fixed" startDate="2018-04-26" startTime="08:30:00" endTime="17:30:00" />
```

#### Month start

An event start of type [`Month`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd#L21-L35) is used when an event starts anytime in a month.

The element requires a number to represent the month (from 1 to 12).
Additionally, you can specify an year (in 4 digit format). If not specified, the event is assumed to start every year at the given month.

```xml
<!-- This events starts sometimes in December 2018 -->
<start xsi:type="Month" month="12" year="2018" />

<!-- This events starts sometimes every December -->
<start xsi:type="Month" month="12" />

```

#### Semester start

An event start of type [`Semester`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd#L37-L52) is used when an event starts anytime in a semester.

The schema defines three semesters, `Spring`, `Summer`, and `Fall` without explicitly defining the period of reference.
Additionally, you can specify an year (in 4 digit format). If not specified, the event is assumed to start every year at the given semester.

```xml
<!-- This event starts during the spring of the 2018 -->
<start xsi:type="Semester" semester="Spring" year="2018" />

<!-- This event starts every spring -->
<start xsi:type="Semester" semester="Spring" />
```

#### Always on

An event start of type [`AlwaysOn`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd#L54-L58) is used when an event is always ready to start. It does not require additional information.

```xml
<start xsi:type="AlwaysOn" />
```

#### Text

An event start of type [`Text`](../../schemas/3.0/event-start-info.xsd#L60-L66) is used to present information about the start of an event in a paragraph. There is no character limit for this element. However, the text will be elided after 80 characters. 

Note that users will not be able to filter events that have their start set to an instance of this type.

```xml
<start xsi:type="Text" description="Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet." />
```

### Additional information

The schema supports additional optional nodes to cover some corner cases.

[`<applicationInfo />`](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd#L173-L190) is used to enable the deep linking into some application systems. It requires an URL and an application code. Additionally, it supports the possibility to make the link available only during a set period of time.

[`<lastApplicationDate />`](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd#L27-L34) is used to display information about the last available date to apply to the event. Its content can either be an element `<date />` containing the date or an element `<text />` containing a descriptive text. There is no character limit for the `<text />` element. However, the text will be elided after 80 characters. 

The [`<flags />`](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd#L118-L134) node is used to provide a list of boolean flags. The information must be handled ad-hoc so please use this element only after consulting with your account manager.

Finally, [`<additionalInfo />`](../../schemas/3.0/event.xsd#L98-L116) is used to provide unstructured information via a list of key/value tuples. The information contained in these tuples must be handled ad-hoc so please use this element only after consulting with your account manager.
